[Music]
so there's plenty of time before your
plane departs and your smartphone is
about to run out of battery well lucky
you good thing you can charge your phone
on the go but hold on that Instagram
selfie or an urgent email might cost you
a lot IBM security experts say that
cyber criminals use USB ports in
airports train stations and other public
places to steal personal data from your
gadgets they have no difficulty
modifying USB ports by installing
special software that steals the owner's
personal data including bank information
you might think that it's a bit paranoid
but cyber criminals are becoming more
active and this is no joke in 2019
transport became the second priority for
cyber criminals right after financial
organizations can you imagine that USB
chargers might be traveler friendly and
installed in public places for their
convenience but they're not necessarily
safe Kayla Barlow vice president of
x-force threat intelligence at IBM
security says that travelers have always
been vulnerable centuries ago they were
attacked by pirates but nowadays most of
the thefts happen on a digital level the
thing is that smartphones receive data
through the same USB port that they
charge from in 2016
Kaspersky laboratory staff learn to
install external software and viruses on
smartphones using USB cables the whole
procedure only took them three minutes
sure the cyber security guru used their
discovery to develop an antidote but the
ones after your info won't be so noble
when you plug the cable into a
compromised outlet you'll connect your
smartphone or tablet to an external
drive that launches the process of
copying your data or installing a virus
on it they'll get access to all your
personal information in no time that
includes your bank account email text
messages photos and contacts this
technology is known as juice jacking
another way they use to steal your data
is called video jacking we
is also based on using a modified USB
port all the activity on the smartphone
screen is recorded on video and allows
the thieves to see what you type and
what kind of info you look through
sometimes they don't even bother to do
anything to the port itself they just
leave a cable plugged in their Barlow
says that a bad guy probably wouldn't
take the USB port apart in front of
everybody but he could just plug in his
special cable there and wait at home in
front of his laptop a man passing by
might see the cable which matches his
device and just start charging it and
this is when the software crawls into
your tablet or smartphone and copies
something you'd rather keep private
Barlow compares using USB chargers left
in public places to brushing your teeth
with a toothbrush that you found on the
road you don't have the slightest idea
who's used it and what for before you is
there any reason for the owners of the
latest Android and iPhones to worry the
best brains in the world are working on
their security after all after
smartphone producers learned about juice
jacking they did add extra safety
measures to their devices now iOS and
Android asked for your approval they get
connected to an external device but if
you're prone to agree to anything your
smartphone offers without looking that
won't be much help there's other risk
too if you've got an Android with an
older operating system or the USB
debugging mode is switched off it'll be
no problem to pass a virus on to it
there's a function on the latest Apple
devices called USB restricted mode it's
an innovative defense mechanism which
prohibits data exchange during charging
through a USB port Android models face
greater risks though they're also packed
with their own software which bans
unapproved access to your data if you're
using a device with the latest version
of operational system in theory there
shouldn't be much danger but still if
you need to charge it urgently in a
public place don't use a public USB port
you never know what cyber criminals will
come up with next
so if the only way to have guaranteed
protection from fraud is to avoid using
USB chargers in public places what can
you do if your smartphone has a low
battery well bring a common charger and
plug it in a common outlet this is less
convenient since there aren't as many of
them in airports but it's definitely
safe another option is to charge a power
bank through a USB port and then charge
your smartphone with it if that's still
not enough you could buy a special USB
cable which lets you charge the device
but doesn't allow the exchange of data
you can also follow suit with the
Whitehouse and build a special mobile
security gadget for less than $30 it's
called a juice Jack Defender and will
protect you from identity theft and
malware while charging there's also a
completely different kind of danger when
it comes to charging your smartphone
through a USB cable the device can
simply burn out from voltage swell the
construction of an outlet in a public
place is very simple it's a plug
directly connected to wires if it's
having issues and is connected to your
smartphone it can destroy it and yet
despite the huge risks even people who
should know better get careless at an
RSA Conference in San Francisco which is
devoted to cybersecurity one of the
companies put a charging station at
their stand and offered USB cables to
the participants they did this to see
how many people would use public
chargers the result was 80% and none of
them asked about security measures they
probably felt safe because they were at
a cybersecurity conference but now you
know that you should always keep an eye
out an even crazier thing happened at
Def Con dozens of experts on information
security fell into a trap themselves
they started charging their devices from
a free charge station they all
eventually got the message not to plug
in their personal gadgets to some
dubious boxes especially at this
particular conference so what about you
do you charge your gadgets using public
USB spots do you ever think that they
could be unsafe before you run to charge
the power bank here's some more advice
on how to protect your security install
multi-layered control to all of your
online bills
create 12 symbol passwords it shouldn't
be your mother's maiden name the last
four numbers of your passport number
your birthday or your address these are
the easiest passwords to crack for
people with bad intentions don't use the
same login and password for all your
accounts change passwords every six
months and don't share the details of
every single step you make on social
media remember that in doing so you make
it easier for actual thieves to trace
your route and rob your house while
you're on a business trip or vacation
it's just like you're leaving the door
unlocked to let them in each time you
sit in the airport and feel like sharing
with your friends that you're going
somewhere think twice what picture are
you going to show and how could it harm
you don't ever show your boarding pass
on social media at first glance it looks
like the only information you can get
from it is a passenger name and the
boarding reference but someone will be
able to get access to your personal info
on the airline site where passport data
email and your loyalty program number
are kept with this info they could
cancel your return ticket and your
vacation will be ruined
your personal data could also be used to
make a false credit request if you still
don't feel like the vacation is started
until you take a traditional picture of
your passport with a boarding pass
delete the ticket number booking
reference and any data about your flight
from the picture before posting it the
same rule applies for barcodes which can
be used with bad intentions - my rule of
thumb imagine charlie the cyber criminal
is looking over your shoulder ready to
pounce on any morsel you drop your goal
starve charlie hey if you learn
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life